# About (me)

It wasn't a linear path for me to becoming a developer, but the experiences I've had along the way have certainly given me an interesting take on things!
After I left university with a research masters in chemistry, I joined the Royal Navy as an officer. I found the Navy to be a worthwhile challenge, mentally and physically. Training had many diverse and interesting fields of study and I gained from managing and being part of close-knit teams, but there was little creativity to be found there.
Following my first tour, I decided to leave the navy to pursue my interest in technology and joined the team at Esquared, a start-up mobile health and fitness app. I worked as the accounts and digital content manager, speaking with partners, troubleshooting and maintaining their timetables. I also worked closely with the development team, helping product test, giving input on UX/UI, and I was exposed to Agile practices. It was this that made me decide to pursue learning to code myself.
I later left Esquared to pursue learning front-end development full time. I started with HTML, CSS and vanilla JS and built my first static websites locally. I progressed to NodeJS and NPM, using modules such as ExpressJS, with Handlebars for templating and Bootstrap 4 for responsive design. I also have worked with MongoDB, Mongoose and KeytstoneJS, with version control on GitHub that can be found on my page.
I’m most interested in the elements of front-end closest to UX/UI design with HTML and CSS/SASS, but I have been proactive in learning about SPA, MVC and MVVM type applications and their back ends out of necessity, as a freelancer building sites end-to-end. In particular, I’ve been keen to understand the evolution of the JavaScript ecosystem; how a lightweight language designed for small client-side event-driven tasks in the browser became a technology capable of supporting entire applications, including traditionally back-end features like webpage requests, data transfers and general server tasks.
I was drawn to front-end design over other software roles out of a need to be creative but wanting to remain in a technical industry. Over the years and presently, I’ve also worked part-time as an artist, namely painting, and what I have found in front-end design, is an opportunity to combine my creativity with my scientific background.